[gardener-local] Support real infrastructure and registering provider-extensions (#6678)
gardener/gardener: docs/deployment/getting_started_locally_with_extensions.md

> # Deploying Gardener locally and enable provider-extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploying Gardener locally and enabling provider-extensions
```

or

```suggestion
# Deploy Gardener locally and enable provider-extensions
```

Author: I chose your first proposal to make the headline consistent to the one in `getting_started_locally.md`

> # Deploying Gardener locally and enable provider-extensions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Deploying Gardener locally with seed on existing Kubernetes cluster
```

IIUC, this matches the primary intent of this setup.

Author: The first title includes the purpose, the second one the setup.
I prefer the first one because it gives you an idea when you should use this scenario.

> This document will walk you through deploying Gardener on your local machine and bootstrap your own seed clusters on a existing Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: You could consider running a spell-checker for this doc.

```suggestion
This document will walk you through deploying Gardener on your local machine and bootstrapping your own seed clusters on an existing Kubernetes cluster.
```

It is supposed to run your local Gardener developments on a real infrastructure. For running Gardener only entirely local, please check the [getting started locally](getting_started_locally.md) docs.
If you encounter difficulties, please open an issue so that we can make this process easier.

Gardener runs in any Kubernetes cluster.
In this guide, we will start a [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster which is used as garden cluster. Any Kubernetes cluster could be used as seed clusters in order to support provider extensions (please refer to the [architecture overview](../concepts/architecture.md)). This guide is tested for using Kubernetes Clusters provided by Gardener, AWS, Azure and GCP as seed so far.

Based on [Skaffold](https://skaffold.dev/), the container images for all required components will be built and deployed into the clusters (via their [Helm charts](https://helm.sh/)).

> ![Architecture Diagram](content/getting_started_locally_with_extensions.png)

Reviewer 2: Comment to update the architecture diagram as soon as everyone agreed with the chosen approach.

Author: done 😄

Reviewer 2: Nice!

## Prerequisites

- Make sure that you have prepared your setup and checked out Gardener sources as described by the [Local Setup guide](../development/local_setup.md).

> - Make sure your Docker daemon is up-to-date, up and running and has enough resources (at least `8` CPUs and `8Gi` memory; see [here](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/#resources) how to configure the resources for Docker for Mac).

Reviewer: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/#resources is no longer pointing to a page that describes how settings are changed.

```suggestion
- Make sure your Docker daemon is up-to-date, up and running and has enough resources (at least `8` CPUs and `8Gi` memory; see [here](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/mac/) how to configure the resources for Docker for Mac).
```

  > Additionally, please configure at least `120Gi` of disk size for the Docker daemon.

>   > Tip: With `docker system df` and `docker system prune -a` you can cleanup unused data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > Tip: With `docker system df` and `docker system prune -a` you can clean up unused data.
```

- Make sure that you have access to a Kubernetes cluster you can use as a seed cluster in this setup.
  - The seed cluster requires at least 16 CPUs in total to run one shoot cluster
  - You could use any Kubernetes cluster for your seed cluster. However, using a Gardener shoot cluster for your seed simplifies some configuration steps.

>   - When bootstrapping `gardenlet` to the cluster your new seed will have the same provider type as the shoot cluster you use...an AWS shoot will become an AWS seed, an GCP shoot will become an GCP seed etc. (only relevant when using a Gardener shoot as seed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - When bootstrapping `gardenlet` to the cluster your new seed will have the same provider type as the shoot cluster you use - an AWS shoot will become an AWS seed, an GCP shoot will become an GCP seed etc. (only relevant when using a Gardener shoot as seed).
```

## Provide Infrastructure Credentials And Configuration

As this setup is running on a real infrastructure, you have to provide credentials for DNS, the infrastructure and the kubeconfig for Gardener cluster you want to use as seed.

> There are `.gitignore` entries for all files and directories which include credentials. Nevertheless, please double check and make sure that credentials are not commited.

### DNS
Gardener control plane requires DNS for default and internal domains. Thus, you have to configure a valid DNS provider for your setup.

Please maintain your DNS provider configuration and credentials at `./example/provider-extensions/garden/controlplane/values.yaml`.

You can find a template for the file at `./example/provider-extensions/garden/controlplane/values.yaml.tmpl`.

### Infrastructure
Infrastructure secrets and the corresponding secret bindings should be maintained at:
-  `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/infrastructure-secrets.yaml`

> -  `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/secret-bindings.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/infrastructure-secrets.yaml`
- `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/secret-bindings.yaml`
```

There are templates with `.tmpl` suffixes for the files in the same folder.

### Seed Cluster Preparation
The `kubeconfig` of your Kubernetes cluster you would like to use as seed should be placed at `./example/provider-extensions/seed/kubeconfig`.
Additionally, please maintain the configuration of your seed in `./example/provider-extensions/seed/seed-config.yaml`. You can use `seed-config.yaml.tmpl` in the same directory as a template. This file also includes explanations of the settings.

Using a Gardener cluster as seed simplifies the process, because some configuration options can be taken from `shoot-info` and creating DNS entries and TLS certificates is automated.

However, you can use different Kubernetes clusters for your seed too and configure these things manually. Please configure the options of `seed-config.yaml` upfront. For configuring DNS and TLS certificates, `make gardener-extensions-up` , which is explained later, will pause and tell you what to do.

### `CloudProfile`s

> There are no demo `CloudProfiles` yet. Thus, please copy `CloudProfiles` from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles/profiles` or create your own `CloudProfiles` based on the [gardener examples](../../example/30-cloudprofile.yaml). Please check the GitHub repository of your desired provider-extension. Most of them include example `CloudProfile`s.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are no demo `CloudProfiles` yet. Thus, please copy `CloudProfiles` from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloudprofiles/profiles` or create your own `CloudProfiles` based on the [gardener examples](../../example/30-cloudprofile.yaml). Please check the GitHub repository of your desired provider-extension. Most of them include example `CloudProfile`s.
```

> There are no demo `CloudProfiles` yet. Thus, please copy `CloudProfiles` from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles/profiles` or create your own `CloudProfiles` based on the [gardener examples](../../example/30-cloudprofile.yaml). Please check the GitHub repository of your desired provider-extension. Most of them include example `CloudProfile`s.

Reviewer: In `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles/profiles` what is `/profiles`? A file that contains all CloudProfiles? If that is the case then lets rename it to `cloudprofiles.yaml`. Or is it dir name?

Author: All files of `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles` directory are applied to the KinD cluster. I added that.

## Setting Up The KinD Cluster

```bash
make kind-extensions-up
```

This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/provider-extensions/garden/kubeconfig` file.

> It might be helpful to copy this file to `$HOME/.kube/config` since you will need to target this KinD cluster multiple times.

> Alternatively, make sure to set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to `./example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig` for all future steps via `export KUBECONFIG=example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, make sure to set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to `./example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig` for all future steps via `export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig`.
```

> Alternatively, make sure to set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to `./example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig` for all future steps via `export KUBECONFIG=example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig`.

Reviewer: Are we sure that `example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig` is the correct path? On my machine the path was `example/gardener-local/kind/extensions/kubeconfig`.

Author: `example/gardener-local/kind/extensions/kubeconfig` is right. The other one was the status before Rafael refactored the kind setup.

All following steps assume that you are using this kubeconfig.

Additionally, this command deploys a local container registry to the cluster as well as a few registry mirrors that are set up as a pull-through cache for all upstream registries Gardener uses by default.
This is done to speed up image pulls across local clusters.
The local registry can be accessed as `localhost:5001` for pushing and pulling.
The storage directories of the registries are mounted to your machine under `dev/local-registry`.
With this, mirrored images don't have to be pulled again after recreating the cluster.

The command also deploys a default [calico](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico) installation as the cluster's CNI implementation with `NetworkPolicy` support (the default `kindnet` CNI doesn't provide `NetworkPolicy` support).
Furthermore, it deploys the [metrics-server](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) in order to support HPA and VPA on the seed cluster.

## Setting Up Gardener (Garden on KinD, Seed on Gardener Cluster)

```bash

> make gardener-extensions-up

Reviewer: This step fails for me with:

```
Create host and client keys for SSH reverse tunnel
Saving key "/Users/me/go/src/github.com/gardener/gardener/example/provider-extensions/ssh-reverse-tunnel/sshd/host-keys/ssh_host_rsa_key" failed: No such file or directory
make: *** [gardener-extensions-up] Error 1
```

### External Controllers
You might plan to deploy and register external controllers for networking, operating system, providers, etc.. Please put `ControllerDeployment`s and `ControllerRegistration`s into `./example/provider-extensions/garden/controllerregistrations` directory. The whole content of this folder will be applied to your KinD cluster.

### `CloudProfile`s
There are no demo `CloudProfiles` yet. Thus, please copy `CloudProfiles` from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloudprofiles` directory or create your own `CloudProfiles` based on the [gardener examples](../../example/30-cloudprofile.yaml). Please check the GitHub repository of your desired provider-extension. Most of them include example `CloudProfile`s. All files you place in this folder will be applied to your KinD cluster.

## Setting Up The KinD Cluster

```bash
make kind-extensions-up
```

> This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/provider-extensions/garden/kubeconfig` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/gardener-local/kind/extensions/kubeconfig` file.
```

# Deploying Gardener locally and enable provider-extensions

This document will walk you through deploying Gardener on your local machine and bootstrap your own seed clusters in an existing Gardener landscape.
It is supposed to run your local Gardener developments on a real infrastructure. For Gardener entirely local please check the [getting started locally](getting_started_locally.md) docs.
If you encounter difficulties, please open an issue so that we can make this process easier.

Gardener runs in any Kubernetes cluster.
In this guide, we will start a [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster which is used as garden cluster. Existing Gardener clusters will be used as seed clusters in order to support provider extensions (please refer to the [architecture overview](../concepts/architecture.md)).

Based on [Skaffold](https://skaffold.dev/), the container images for all required components will be built and deployed into the clusters (via their [Helm charts](https://helm.sh/)).

![Architecture Diagram](content/getting_started_locally_with_extensions.png)

## Prerequisites

> - Make sure that you have followed the [Local Setup guide](../development/local_setup.md) up until the [Get the sources](../development/local_setup.md#get-the-sources) step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Make sure that you have prepared your setup and checked out Gardener sources as described by the [Local Setup guide](../development/local_setup.md).
```

  > Additionally, please configure at least `120Gi` of disk size for the Docker daemon.
  > Tip: With `docker system df` and `docker system prune -a` you can cleanup unused data.
- Make sure that you have access to a Gardener shoot cluster you can use as a seed cluster in this setup.
  - The cluster requires at least 16 CPUs in total to run one shoot cluster
  - When bootstrapping `gardenlet` to the cluster your new seed will have the same provider type as the shoot cluster you use...an AWS shoot will become an AWS seed, an GCP shoot will become an GCP seed etc.
  - Hibernating seeds could cause problems, so please don't hibernate (and deactivate hibernation schedule) while using it as seed
  - The setup brings its own installation of ingress-nginx, so please don't use the Gardener add-on.

## Provide infrastructure credentials and configuration

As this setup is running on a real infrastructure, you have to provide credentials for DNS, the infrastructure and the kubeconfig for Gardener cluster you want to use as seed.

> There are `.gitignore` entries for all files and directories which include credentials. Nevertheless, please take care of what you commit when you finished these steps..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> There are `.gitignore` entries for all files and directories which include credentials. Nevertheless, please double check and make sure that credentials are not commited.
```

### DNS
Gardener control plane requires DNS for default and internal domains. Thus, you have to configure a valid DNS provider for your setup.

Please maintain your DNS provider configuration and credentials at `./example/gardener-local/controlplane/extensions-config/values.yaml`.

You can find a template for the file at `./example/gardener-local/controlplane/extensions-config/values.yaml.tmpl`.

### Infrastructure
Infrastructure secrets and the corresponding secret bindings should be maintained at:
-  `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/infrastructure-secrets.yaml`
-  `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/secret-bindings.yaml`

There are templates with `.tmpl` suffixes for the files in the same folder.

### Gardener cluster access

> The `kubeconfig` of your Gardener cluster you would like to use as seed should be placed at `./example/provider-extensions/seed/kubeconfig`.

Reviewer 2: What does it mean to use a Gardener cluster as a seed? You probably mean an ordinary Kubernetes cluster that will be registered as a seed?!
If yes, why does the subtitle say 'Gardener cluster access'? Should it rather be 'Seed cluster preparation' or similar?

Author: The documentation was written in the beginning, when I started with using a Gardener shoot as a seed only. I did not really adapt the documentation when I added support for other clusters.
I included your proposals and some more things.

> 

Reviewer 2: We should also mention to prepare the seed values here in `example/provider-extensions/seed/seed-config.yaml` if seed is not a shoot?

### Cloud-profiles

> There are no demo cloud-profiles yet. Thus, please copy cloud-profiles from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles/profiles`. 

Reviewer 2: There is `example/30-cloudprofile.yaml` that you can refer to.

## Setting up the KinD cluster

```bash
make kind-extensions-up
```

> This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/provider-extensions/garden/kubeconfig` file.
```

> # Deploying Gardener locally and enable provider-extensions

Reviewer 3: Add this document to the index (README.md)

This document will walk you through deploying Gardener on your local machine and bootstrap your own seed clusters in an existing Gardener landscape.

> It is supposed to run your local Gardener developments on a real infrastructure. For Gardener entirely local please check the [getting started locally](getting_started_locally.md) docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is supposed to run your local Gardener developments on a real infrastructure. For running Gardener only entirely local, please check the [getting started locally](getting_started_locally.md) docs.
```

If you encounter difficulties, please open an issue so that we can make this process easier.

Gardener runs in any Kubernetes cluster.

> In this guide, we will start a [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster which is used as garden cluster. Existing Gardener clusters will be used as seed clusters in order to support provider extensions (please refer to the [architecture overview](../concepts/architecture.md)).

Reviewer 3: > Existing Gardener clusters will be used as seed clusters in order to support provider extensions (please refer to the [architecture overview](../concepts/architecture.md)).

This sentence is confusing for newbies. Is this still the only option?

## Prerequisites

- Make sure that you have prepared your setup and checked out Gardener sources as described by the [Local Setup guide](../development/local_setup.md).
- Make sure your Docker daemon is up-to-date, up and running and has enough resources (at least `8` CPUs and `8Gi` memory; see [here](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/#resources) how to configure the resources for Docker for Mac).
  > Additionally, please configure at least `120Gi` of disk size for the Docker daemon.
  > Tip: With `docker system df` and `docker system prune -a` you can cleanup unused data.
- Make sure that you have access to a Kubernetes cluster you can use as a seed cluster in this setup.
  - The seed cluster requires at least 16 CPUs in total to run one shoot cluster
  - You could use any Kubernetes cluster for your seed cluster. However, using a Gardener shoot cluster for your seed simplifies some configuration steps.
  - When bootstrapping `gardenlet` to the cluster your new seed will have the same provider type as the shoot cluster you use...an AWS shoot will become an AWS seed, an GCP shoot will become an GCP seed etc. (only relevant when using a Gardener shoot as seed).

>   - Hibernating seeds could cause problems, so please don't hibernate (and deactivate hibernation schedule) while using it as seed (only relevant when using a Gardener shoot as seed).

Reviewer 3: Why? This was possible in the past 👀

Reviewer 2: BTW. the Kyverno webhook reacts on Pod deletions which caused issues during hibernation: Kyverno pods were gone and further pod cleanups could not happen. Thus, Gardener failed at [WaitUntilNoPodRunning](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/fc1fdfcfb9f029a88005ec3f98178c68d79f49f7/pkg/operation/botanist/waiter.go#L114).

Author: There have been issues with the Kyverno webhook (as Tim mentioned) when hibernating the clusters and with the Registry and quic tunnel for waking it up. This should work now.

> ## Provide infrastructure credentials and configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Provide Infrastructure Credentials And Configuration
```

As this setup is running on a real infrastructure, you have to provide credentials for DNS, the infrastructure and the kubeconfig for Gardener cluster you want to use as seed.

> There are `.gitignore` entries for all files and directories which include credentials. Nevertheless, please double check and make sure that credentials are not commited.

### DNS
Gardener control plane requires DNS for default and internal domains. Thus, you have to configure a valid DNS provider for your setup.

Please maintain your DNS provider configuration and credentials at `./example/gardener-local/controlplane/extensions-config/values.yaml`.

You can find a template for the file at `./example/gardener-local/controlplane/extensions-config/values.yaml.tmpl`.

### Infrastructure
Infrastructure secrets and the corresponding secret bindings should be maintained at:
-  `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/infrastructure-secrets.yaml`
-  `./example/provider-extensions/garden/project/credentials/secret-bindings.yaml`

There are templates with `.tmpl` suffixes for the files in the same folder.

> ### Seed cluster preparation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Seed Cluster Preparation
```

The `kubeconfig` of your Kubernetes cluster you would like to use as seed should be placed at `./example/provider-extensions/seed/kubeconfig`.
Additionally, please maintain the configuration of your seed in `./example/provider-extensions/seed/seed-config.yaml`. You can use `seed-config.yaml.tmpl` in the same directory as a template. This file also includes explanations of the settings.

Using a Gardener cluster as seed simplifies the process, because some configuration options can be taken from `shoot-info` and creating DNS entries and TLS certificates is automated.

However, you can use different Kubernetes clusters for your seed too and configure these things manually. Please configure the options of `seed-config.yaml` upfront. For configuring DNS and TLS certificates, `make gardener-extensions-up` , which is explained later, will pause and tell you what to do.

> ### Cloud-profiles

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `CloudProfile`s
```

> There are no demo cloud-profiles yet. Thus, please copy cloud-profiles from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles/profiles` or create your own cloud-profiles based on the [gardener examples](../../example/30-cloudprofile.yaml).  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are no example `CloudProfile`s yet. Thus, please copy `CloudProfile`s from another landscape to `./example/provider-extensions/garden/cloud-profiles/profiles` or create your own cloud-profiles based on the [gardener examples](../../example/30-cloudprofile.yaml).  
```

Reviewer 3: Most provider extensions should have example `CloudProfile`s in their repos, you could mention this

> ## Setting up the KinD cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Setting Up The KinD Cluster
```

```bash
make kind-extensions-up
```

This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/provider-extensions/garden/kubeconfig` file.

> It might be helpful to copy this file to `$HOME/.kube/config` since you will need to target this KinD cluster multiple times.
Alternatively, make sure to set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to `./example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig` for all future steps via `export KUBECONFIG=example/gardener-local/kind-extensions/kubeconfig`.

All following steps assume that you are using this kubeconfig.

> Additionally, this command also deploys a local container registry to the cluster as well as a few registry mirrors, that are set up as a pull-through cache for all upstream registries Gardener uses by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, this command deploys a local container registry to the cluster as well as a few registry mirrors that are set up as a pull-through cache for all upstream registries Gardener uses by default.
```

This is done to speed up image pulls across local clusters.
The local registry can be accessed as `localhost:5001` for pushing and pulling.

> The storage directories of the registries are mounted to the host machine under `dev/local-registry`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The storage directories of the registries are mounted to your machine under `dev/local-registry`.
```

With this, mirrored images don't have to be pulled again after recreating the cluster.

The command also deploys a default [calico](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico) installation as the cluster's CNI implementation with `NetworkPolicy` support (the default `kindnet` CNI doesn't provide `NetworkPolicy` support).
Furthermore, it deploys the [metrics-server](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) in order to support HPA and VPA on the seed cluster.

> ## Setting up Gardener (Garden on KinD, Seed on Gardener cluster)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Setting Up Gardener (Garden on KinD, Seed on Gardener Cluster)
```

```bash
make gardener-extensions-up
```

This will first prepare the basic configuration of your KinD and Gardener clusters.
Afterwards, the images for the Garden cluster are built and deployed into the KinD cluster.
Finally, the images for the Seed cluster are built, pushed to a container registry on the Seed and the `gardenlet` is started.

> ## Pause and unpause the KinD cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Pause And Unpause The KinD Cluster
```

> Unlike in the `getting started locally` scenario the KinD cluster can be paused by stopping and keeping its docker container. This is done by:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The KinD cluster can be paused by stopping and keeping its docker container. This can be done by running:
```

```bash
make kind-extensions-down
```

When you run `make kind-extensions-up` again, you will start the docker container with your previous Gardener configuration again. 

This provides the option to switch off your local KinD cluster fast without leaving orphaned infrastructure elements behind.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ## Creating a `Shoot` cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Creating a `Shoot` Cluster
```

You can wait for the `Seed` to be ready by running

```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=gardenletready --for=condition=extensionsready --for=condition=bootstrapped seed provider-extensions --timeout=5m
```

> Alternatively, you can run `kubectl get seed provider-extensions` and wait for the `STATUS` to indicate readiness:

Reviewer 3: Isn't this done by Skaffold when running `make gardener-extensions-up`?

Author: Yes it is. There is a similar paragraph in `getting_started_locally.md` though. 
In this scenario it might make sense to keep this paragraph because there are are other cases which could make the seed `unready` like hibernating the seed or pausing kind. I adapted the command for this use case and added an explanation.

```bash
NAME                  STATUS   PROVIDER   REGION         AGE    VERSION      K8S VERSION
provider-extensions   Ready    gcp        europe-west1   111m   v0.0.0-dev   v1.24.2
```

In order to create a first shoot cluster, just try one of the following example shoot configurations. Please remember that only shoot cluster with the same provider type as your seed cluster will be started successfully. The others will remain in `<pending>` state.

```bash
kubectl apply -f ./example/provider-extensions/shoot/aws.yaml
kubectl apply -f ./example/provider-extensions/shoot/aws-arm64.yaml
kubectl apply -f ./example/provider-extensions/shoot/azure.yaml
kubectl apply -f ./example/provider-extensions/shoot/gcp.yaml

> ```

Reviewer 3: Those files don't exist anymore.

You can wait for the `Shoot` to be ready by running `kubectl -n garden-local get shoots` and wait for the `LAST OPERATION` to reach `100%`:

```bash
NAME        CLOUDPROFILE   PROVIDER   REGION         K8S VERSION   HIBERNATION   LAST OPERATION               STATUS    AGE
aws         aws            aws        eu-west-1      1.24.3        Awake         <pending>                    healthy   84s
aws-arm64   aws            aws        eu-west-1      1.24.3        Awake         <pending>                    healthy   65s
azure       az             azure      westeurope     1.24.2        Awake         <pending>                    healthy   57s
gcp         gcp            gcp        europe-west1   1.24.3        Awake         Create Processing (43%)      healthy   94s
```

> ### Accessing the `Shoot` cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Accessing The `Shoot` Cluster
```

Your shoot clusters will have a public DNS entries for their API servers, so that they are could be reached via `kubectl` after you downloaded their `kubeconfig`.

> The cluster from the examples listed before have kubeconfigs with static tokens. This is how to access the `gcp` cluster example. The others could be accessed accordingly. 

Reviewer 3: Fix this, i.e. advertise using the `adminkubeconfig` subresource instead of the static kubeconfig (even if enabled).

```bash
kubectl get secrets -n garden-local gcp.kubeconfig -o yaml | yq .data.kubeconfig | base64 -d > /tmp/kubeconfig-extensions.yaml
kubectl --kubeconfig=/tmp/kubeconfig-extensions.yaml get nodes
```

> ## Deleting the `Shoot` clusters

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Deleting The `Shoot` Clusters
```

```bash
./hack/usage/delete shoot aws garden-local
./hack/usage/delete shoot aws-arm64 garden-local
./hack/usage/delete shoot azure garden-local
./hack/usage/delete shoot gcp garden-local

> ```

Reviewer 3: adapt

> ## Tear down the Gardener environment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Tear Down The Gardener Environment
```

> Before you delete your local KinD cluster you should shut down your `Shoots` and `Seed` in a clean way to avoid orphaned infrastructure elements in your projects. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you delete your local KinD cluster, you should shut down your `Shoots` and `Seed` in a clean way to avoid orphaned infrastructure elements in your projects. 
```

> Please ensure that your KinD and Seed clusters are online and run:

Reviewer 3: > Please ensure that your KinD and Seed clusters are online

What does this mean?

Author: They should not be paused or hibernated. I added this to the phrase.

```bash
make gardener-extensions-down
```

This will delete all `Shoots` first (this could take a couple of minutes), then uninstall `gardenlet` from the Seed and the gardener components from the KinD. Finally, the additional components like container registry etc. are deleted from both clusters.

> When this is done you can securely delete your local KinD cluster by:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When this is done, you can securely delete your local KinD cluster by:
```
